So this is a really nice feature of Next,
the ability to take your entire kind of React application
and just spit out static files.
And the reason I like this is because
it means I can deploy something like S3 or Netlify.
And I'm gonna show you that in a moment.
But first, we need to configure Next
so that we can do an export.
And what we need is this special property
inside of the next.config.
So what you need to return to this exportPathMap
is an object mapping of URLs to pages.
So let me just grab that and pop it into my
kind of growing config over here, just there.
And so we've got the about page, index page.
We're gonna have a contact, that points to the contact page.
But then we have sessions.
So you've got session.
And what we need to do is go through
each one of these URLs, still not running, npm run dev.
Go through each one of those URLs, the slugs,
and point that to session and then query
at slug is, I think memory is one of them.
And I can programme this, as well.
So I could dynamically generate this object.
And so I'm just gonna do a few of these,
copy the URLs.
I'm not gonna bother doing them all,
just so you get an idea of how it works.
So session, page, oops, slash there.
Page equals session, query, slug, rethinking.
Let's get password, memory and this one.
Session, query, slug is password.
And one last one, art, which should be easy,
just cut and paste that, oops.
Password or passwords.
Oh, now I'm gonna break it, aren't I?
Passwords, get art.
Okay, oops, arts.
So now in our package,
instead of build just being build,
we want to do && next export, okay.
And what that's gonna do is create a directory called out.
So if I run this, npm run build,
it's going to build the next files it needs,
and it's gonna export and generate all those files,
or it should do.
And it'll create a directory called out.
Oh, blew up.
Oh, because the API is missing.
I'll just put that back in.
So I made some changes so that an API would work.
Nope, it's still failing.
So node-fetch is failing.
So I'm looking at statueries here
to understand what has gone wrong.
Not super useful.
So it means somewhere along these lines
when it's doing the export,
it's going through each page
and it doesn't have the API.
So I'm guessing it's for the individual session pages.
So we can get rid of that.
And this API value is this thing.
So I've got a feeling that it is inside of
the environment variable.
So we need to do API equals http://localhost:3001.
Let's try that one more time.
It should give us a build.
Okay, so these are the files it has generated.
Let's go and have a look at the out directory.
So if we go into the directory,
and have a look, we've got the next directory,
a whole bunch of stuff that I don't care about,
but this is what we do care about.
Let's just open this up.
You can see we have individual directories
for every one of those sessions.
You see how that's gonna work.
And if we run something like serve,
you'll be able to see, looks the same.
It's using the same kind of local navigation, right.
Not all the URLs are there,
because I didn't put them all in.
Oh, this is now hitting an API,
so it's kind of faking it.
But what I want to do now is actually
push that into GitHub.
So, git add -p.
I'm gonna commit those changes.
Trying to deploy to netlify.
Okay, I'm gonna push to GitHub,
so it's going online.
And now in Netlify, I'm going to add a new repo.
And I'm gonna search for next.
So this one's the one I just created.
Okay, so the build command is npm run build,
and the publish directory is out.
And I'm gonna make sure that the API is pointing
to my Now website, because I know that that will work
for the time being.
I think we'll do show_speaker, one.
Just deploy that site, and let's see how that goes.
And here we go, it's finished.
It says site is live.
And I go off and I go to the preview URL, there we go.
Working, oh, failed to fetch from client.
So there is, I mean,
for a couple of minute's work,
it doesn't seem to like that.
I think it might be the question marks it doesn't like.
So I'm pretty sure that art was in there.
Get rid of the question mark.
Yes, so it's the question mark it doesn't like.
Pretty close, though.
So I'll make a follow-up video
just to make these small changes,
but that's to show you that really,
if you want to build out that static site,
it's really just a case of adding this export map,
that returns an object,
and making sure that all of your query arguments go in.
Now, this could be constructed from an API code.
So I could actually build this out,
since this is a function I could do,
async and then await, fetch and grab that API,
I can't remember what the URL is,
but I could go to schedule and then loop over,
Json equals, loop over each one of those
schedule items and generate up this block of the pages
when it went to building,
when it actually went to exporting all the pages,
and just do it dynamically,
so that it grows over time.
But that's how to do static generation with Next.
I will do a follow-up video to show you
how to fix that back end.
And I will also post a follow-up video
to show you how to mix using a CDN, like Netlify,
as static content with something like the Now
as the front end with dynamic content,
so that you're gonna get the benefit of
CDN for static files and dynamic back end
for your back end.